# Qualitative Reasoning
Second practical assignment of the course "Knowledge Representation" at the Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam (2019). 
Authors:
* Phillip Lippe
* Shantanu Chandra

## Requirements
The reasoning engine is written in the programming language Python version 3.7.1. We expect this code to also run for any other Python version 3.x.x to be executable. No need of any special package is required for this program. However, in case of running into troubles, please don't hesitate to contact us (E-mail: phillip.lippe@googlemail.com).

## Python executable
To run the qualitative reasoning engine, please run the command "python main.py". The algorithm can parameterized by the following settings:
```
usage: main.py [-h] [-d] [--graph GRAPH] [--all_states]
               [--state_graph STATE_GRAPH] [--intra_state INTRA_STATE]
               [--inter_state INTER_STATE] [--state_trans STATE_TRANS]

optional arguments:
  -h, --help            show this help message and exit
  -d, --debug           Increases output to all generated transitions and
                        states
  --graph GRAPH         Options for which graph to use. 1: default in the
                        report, 2: bidrectional value constraints, 3: extended
                        graph with height and pressure. Default: 1
  --all_states          Generates all states and not only from initial zero
                        state.
  --state_graph STATE_GRAPH
                        Filename for state graph dot file. Default:
                        "state_graph.dot"
  --intra_state INTRA_STATE
                        Filename for intra state description file. Default:
                        "intra_state_description.txt"
  --inter_state INTER_STATE
                        Filename for inter state description file. Default:
                        "inter_state_description.txt"
  --state_trans STATE_TRANS
                        Filename for state transition description file.
                        Default: "transition_description.txt"
```

In order to run the default model for which the state graph is visualized in the report, please run "python main.py --graph 1". The extended model can be generated by "python main.py --graph 3". 

Note that the state graph is automatically converted into a pdf. If a different format like "png" is desired, please execute the command "dot -Tpng state_graph.dot -o state_graph.png" afterwards (if filenames not changed). The other text files save the intra- and inter-state behaviour for all states/transitions, and the transitions are described in more detail in the file "transition_description.txt".

## Example graphs
We ran the reasoning engine on all given graphs and saved the outputs in a separate folder which is submitted here as well (folder "example_graphs/"). The first option represents the "default" model, the second the "bidirectional" and the third the "extended" version. All graphs are also executed with generating all states (and not only the ones reachable from initial zero state).

## Creating own graphs
As the reasoning engine is fairly generic, it is also possible to create different systems and reason about them equally. To do that, please have a look at the bottom of the file "state_graph.py". There you can find two functions that describe the default and extended model. These descriptions can be either extended or completely new graphs can be created in a new function. We assume the code to be intuitive and the examples of the container system should give a good introduction in how to create a new graph. Otherwise, please don't hesitate to contact us (E-mail: phillip.lippe@googlemail.com).

